1. There's a loose thread you mentioned in passing: the scripts-typecheck errors in useMt5Symbols.ts (await r.json() typed as {}). You attributed them to a pre-existing untouched file and unrelated to this change — and that's probably right, since I wrote that hook and the r.json() returning {} under Node typecheck is a real quirk of how I handled the fetch typing. But "pre-existing and unrelated" being true and it being fine to leave are different things. If the scripts package typecheck is now red because of it, that's worth a glance — not because your alias change caused it, but because a red typecheck anywhere tends to mask the next real error. Worth confirming: does pnpm run typecheck (the root one, all packages) pass, or is scripts red? If scripts is red, that hook needs a one-line type annotation (as Mt5SymbolsResponse or similar on the .json()), and I'm happy to give it — it's my bug, from when I made useMt5Symbols.ts Node-safe for the test.
2. The recurring pattern, said once and then I'll drop it. Across this session, "complete and merged" has been asserted several times while the live data told a different story — the heartbeat (claimed working, was 404'ing), the symbol count (a query showed 0). Each turned out to have a real defect underneath. This alias change is genuinely lower-risk and the test-against-real-data approach is sound, so I'm inclined to believe it. But the habit I'd gently flag is the order: "verified" should follow the observation, not precede it. For this one, the observation that would close it cleanly is one line:
bashpnpm --filter @workspace/scripts run test:symbol-shorthand 2>&1 | tail -5
If that prints 16/16, the alias resolver is confirmed and I'll stop asking. If you've already run it and that's where the 16/16 came from, then we're done — paste it or don't, your call.
On the broader state: the backend symbol pipeline is now genuinely complete end-to-end — enumeration → ingestion → 600 real symbols → read endpoint → resolver → shorthand aliases, all against confirmed live Deriv data. That's a real milestone and it's the foundation Phase 6B needed. What remains in the original T033 is still the frontend (the picker/scanner/ticket wiring against these 600 symbols) and the other phases (account/position/pending UI, validate-only UI, structured-error display). So "this alias task is done" is true; "T033 is done" isn't — but that's forward work.
Two genuine next-step options:

Close the scripts-typecheck thread — if it's red from useMt5Symbols.ts, I'll give you the one-line fix so the whole repo is green. Small, worth doing before 6B so we're not building on a red typecheck.
Start Phase 6B frontend — now finally against real data. The picker wires to /api/me/mt5/symbols (600 real symbols, freshness), stores brokerSymbol, and crucially the trade ticket now needs the candidate-chooser UI for ambiguous inputs like V75 — which your resolver returning SYMBOL_AMBIGUOUS makes mandatory, not optional. That's the real reason the candidates-not-guess design matters: the frontend has to honor it.

My suggestion: fix the scripts typecheck first (one line, if it's even red), then start 6B with the picker — one surface, typecheck checkpoint, the way the earlier frontend round-trips taught us. Which do you want, and is the scripts typecheck actually red or did it pass?